eight weeks now into the war on Gaza
we're looking at multiple angles of this
story and the way it's been covered
starting with artificial intelligence as
an Israeli weapon of War and the real
life and death consequences for
Palestinians Israeli hostages released
by Hamas are telling stories that are
proving very inconvenient for the
Israeli government and the West Bank
what should be a safer space is racked
with violence and under constant Israeli
surveillance more than 2 months of
Israeli bombing have turned the Gaza
Strip into a hellscape entire
neighborhoods have been wiped out made
uninhabitable with more than 16,000
Palestinians killed it is a population
on the run an unfolding genocide and we
now know that the unprecedented killing
of Gins is being powered at least in
part by Ai and is Israeli artificial
intelligence system that generates new
targets at a rate we have never seen
before one former Israeli intelligence
officer Likens the AI system to a mass
assassination Factory reports about that
technology have now been published by
two Israeli news outlets 972 and local
call for years the Israeli military has
been milking the country's Tech sector
to find more and more ways of managing
its occupation of Palestinians and AI is
just the latest high-tech weapon in what
has turned into a barbaric Israeli War
on Gaza one bombing after another the
mass killing and displacement of
Palestinian
civilians the Gaza Strip has been a
testing ground for Israel's surveillance
Technologies for AI powered lethal
weapons technology that you see in
sci-fi films or in some dystopian horror
movies but it is the reality of of many
Palestinians on the
ground and it is where the biblical
meets the
dystopian the gospel that's what the
Israeli military calls the artificial
intelligence system it has deployed in
Gaza the AI does not issue commands or
push buttons that is done by a human it
just gener Ates the
targets more than ever
before the latest Revelations about the
gospel were provided by two Israeli news
outlets 972 magazine and local call they
have unmasked how the Israeli military
has loosened its already permissive
constraints on the killing of
Palestinian civilians as one source told
972 nothing happens by accident when a
3-year-old girl is killed in a home in
Gaza it's because someone in the Army
decided it wasn't a big deal for her to
be killed everything is intentional we
know exactly how much collateral damage
there is in every home when the gospel
system was ruled out it was said to be
one of the state-of-the-art AI systems
that would allow the military to
pinpoint targets quickly and accurately
it's allowed the Army to essentially
Target at a mass scale what what
soldiers have described as a mass
assassination machine which means that
they're not just pinpointing military
infrastructure they're bombing civilian
homes we have three AI systems which
operate in concert we have The Alchemist
system which collects information we
have the second layer of this AI system
which is called the fire Factory which
analyzes the data and the gospel system
which produces possible military targets
it must be stressed that every military
Target which is attacked from the air by
the IDF goes through an analysis of both
Intelligence Officers and legal advisers
so while AI systems produce potential
targets at the end of the day these are
human beings which are authorizing
them this is not the first we've heard
of the Israeli military harnessing AI
technology in 2021 it called its bombing
campaign in Gaza the world's first AI
War 1 month into this war the mil AR
released a statement about its AI
powered Target Factory and its ability
to produce reams of Hamas targets
rapidly the language in that statement
the talk of precise attacks and minimal
harm on civilians has been decimated by
972 journalism with the help of its
sources current and former Israeli
intelligence officials one told 972 the
emphasis is on quantity and not quality
others talked of the significance
expansion of targets Beyond military
ones the term the Israelis now use is
power targets meaning public buildings
universities schools hospitals libraries
mass destruction that Israeli forces in
Gaza have been proudly posting
online prior to this war power targets
were were were not so Central to
military Doctrine and strategy the
emphasis was really on Precision bombing
but we're seeing those kinds of of
limits on civilian deaths kind of go out
the window with this new tactic of
causing as much destruction and as much
horror as possible to put pressure on
Hamas what this means for gazin is that
nowhere is actually safe from Israeli
targeting and it goes to show how this
current war is really shaped by a desire
for revenge and retribution we have seen
agonizing videos of fathers and mothers
holding the dead bodies of their
children and babies showing the rest of
the world what Israel's Bank of targets
look like the system um spits out
hundreds of targets under the premise
that those are Hamas or Islamic Jihad
targets many of those so-called targets
are just basic uh innocent civilian
infrastructure to the family they were
not doing anything suddenly air strike
started targeting their houses this is
so violent and so aggressive of what
we're witnessing every single day in the
go and what Israel considers military
targets are used to according to the
testimonies from Israeli officers
instill shock and suffering on
Palestinians in order to turn against
Hamas to inflict as much violence and
destruction uh among civilians and their
infrastructure uh in order to weaken and
eliminate uh the fabric of society the
Israeli government from the defense
minister to the prime minister minister
to many other senior officials have said
in plain terms that they hold the entire
population of Gaza responsible for the
October 7th attacks it's an entire
nation out there that is responsible
it's not true this rhetoric about
civilians not not aware not involved
it's absolutely not true and their
action indicates that they are punishing
that entire 2.2 million U population of
Gaza for the actions of
Hamas that is collective punishment that
is a textbook War crime so this report
does shed new light into what's taking
place but it is in line with the actions
and words of the Israeli government
officials which have articulated a
criminal intent to commit Mass
atrocities having long developed the
means to track and locate Gins Israel
has been dropping leaflets on them
ordering them in Arabic to leave their
homes for so-called safe zones in the
South which Israel has also repeatedly
bombed one of the latest leaflets comes
with a QR code that takes Palestinians
to a map of Gaza carved up into numbered
squares some safe some not one Aid
worker likened it to a macabra game of
battleships in which terrified civilians
will be left guessing which Square will
save their life the Israeli government
has issued a QR code in a more detailed
map that it says is aimed at uh
facilitating the evacuations of
civilians in Gaza but to provide a QR
code to a population that's been under
Relentless bombardment for two months
that has had their access to to internet
um to um electricity charge their phones
cut is a sick joke the international
humanitarian law is clear
that state parties must take feasible
precautions to protect civilians
including issuing warnings but issuing a
warning when there is no safe place to
go in Gaza is not an effective warning
and is not in compliance with
International humanitarian law so the
the the general purpose of this map is
actually to avoid civilian harm and try
to help them to move into s areas and I
think that the way that this map is
being perceived in some Outlets is
missing the point it is about saving
Palestinian lives because the IDF would
have had a much easier life of Simply
attacking that's coming from a former
legal adviser to the Israeli military
and the ministry of justice but it fails
to square with reality the evidence on
the ground the indefensibly high
civilian death tolls the appalling
number of children killed it is
modern-day Israeli mythology like the
line about Israel somehow having the
most moral army in the world what Israel
does have is the technology to enforce a
system of domination over Palestinians
what Amnesty International calls
automated
apartheid that includes artificial
intelligence systems that Israel is
using to help bomb Gaza back to the
Stone Age while insisting that it helps
save the lives of innocent Palestinians
rather than making it easier to take
them the Israeli government with or
without um automation is carrying out
grave abuses against um Palestinians
they have systematically unlawfully
killed Palestinians um in situations
that go beyond what international
humanitarian law authorizes they're
increasingly not even going through the
motions of showing why their actions
comply uh with international law these
are not accidents automating an approach
that um authoriz IES unlawful killings
certainly presents heightened risk of
harm to civilians the Gaza Strip and the
occupied Palestinian territories have
become a testing laboratory in every
sense of the word there is just simply
no limitations to the extent that Israel
can test these Technologies against
Palestinians I think the objective is
clear and that
is the annihilation of of Palestinian in
the Gaza Strip and making Gaza
uninhabitable these technologies that
are used now in Gaza we should probably
upgrade the term from automated operti
to automated
[Music]
genocide the release of Israeli hostages
taken by Hamas and held captive since
October 7th has created some challenges
for the Netanyahu government in its
messaging the Israeli media have gone
wall to- wall with their coverage of
this story story and minak shiravi is
here with more Richard during the 7-Day
pause in fighting late last month Hamas
and Israel exchanged hostages the story
has dominated Israeli headlines they
released Israelis among them teenagers
women and some elderly they've said that
they were subjected to physical violence
including beatings and degradation in
Hamas captivity however some of the most
explosive headlines have been their
criticisms of the Israeli government
leaked audio from a closed door meeting
between the released hostages and prime
minister Netanyahu and his cabinet
showed just how acrimonious the
encounter
[Music]
was Palestinian hostages many of them
just young boys in their teens when they
were taken in have also emerged with
stories of life in Israeli prisons
jailed without charges many have spoken
about how they were deprived of basics
such as food and warmth and repeatedly
shocked humiliated and degraded by their
Israeli
captors going back to how the hostage
narrative is unfolding in Israel until
this past week the Netanyahu government
had sought to control media interactions
with abductees vetting people before
they would go on air briefing them on
talking points however the number of
hostages released now has made them
harder to control and with each
testimony each pointed criticism this
story has become harder to contain
thanks MAA throughout this war Israel
has said that its goal in Gaza is to
destroy Hamas but Israeli attacks on
Palestinians have also escalated on the
West Bank where Hamas has no Authority
or military presence that violence is
usually provoked by Israeli settlers
prior to October 7th almost
200 Palestinians had been killed on the
West Bank in the past 10 months that
number has more than doubled since
Mariam baruti is a Palestinian
journalist based in ramala she's been
interviewed by multiple media Outlets
about what's happening on the West Bank
and in the war on Gaza and some of those
exchanges like this one with the UK
Channel Sky News have been tested dozens
of Palestinians are killed we call it a
Slaughter we have called it a Massac
time yeah no no I'm talking about
individual but could you just
answered yeah if you would like to talk
as a joural at least come with me with
the right information
please maram baru joins us now from rala
Ms baruti that exchange that we just saw
on Sky News in the interviews that
you've done and the ones that you've
seen on this topic since October 7th how
typical was that that exchange that
moment the way International journalists
attempt to Trope Palestinians and
delegitimize as well as deny the crimes
against them has has not only become
vicious in in the way that journalists
are framing it like that interview but
it has increased and become lethal in a
way that it is a complete Pro genocidal
stance by journalists that claim to be
um objective that claim to be
nonpartisan that claim to be supporting
um the truth to support accurate
accuracy for their audiences but it's
not just common it is being encouraged
by editors and policy makers whether
directly or indirectly so you don't see
that as someone not fully understanding
the context and bringing the context to
the interview you see that more as an
intention absolutely as journalists it
is our job to do our due diligence
prior to bringing in anyone who is
giving a testimony um so to claim
ignorance requires you to quit your job
and go and
learn let's talk about the West Bank
where you live it's always been heavily
surveilled Hebron is often described as
exhibit a in the modeling for automated
Israeli apartheid what have you seen in
the way of surveillance and NES
escalation on the West Bank since
October 7th of course we have seen an
escalation of surveillance across the
West Bank as well as for Palestinians
with Israeli citizenship which we tend
to negate from The Narrative of the
ethnic cleansing happening but the
surveillance within uh the West Bank is
not just invasive it is at levels of
being lethal first you collect the data
you insert cameras on every single
Street where you have five cameras on
every corner keeping track of
Palestinians you gather carplate numbers
in a big database of every single
Palestinian driving which car um to know
the movement as we have seen many of the
assassinations being carried out by the
Israeli military are happening in
people's cars what we are seeing now is
just an escalation intensification and
an embolden to carry out step number two
of Israel's surveillance operation and
that is kill who we find and this is all
under the claim of having information
for Palestinian Terror activities when
in fact it's just Israel trying to
[__] Palestinian will to [__]
Palestinian morale in that it forego um
the claim to Liberation the demands to
be free and the end of the Israeli
occupation since October 7th uh
journalists from around the world have
flown into the into the region a lot of
them are still based in Israel some of
them have embedded with the Israeli
military to get into Gaza how difficult
is it for journalists to get into the
West Bank and for those who haven't been
to the West Bank to cover the story what
are they
missing it's relatively difficult for
journalists to enter the West Bank only
in comparison to previous times but
Israel is placing restrictions and is
assigning things like minders to
different Bureau Chiefs and
international reporters in the region
and that is someone that responds and
operates under the command of the
Israeli military to attempt and worse
manipulate um as well as pressure
journalists to cover in a certain angle
or to deny information from audiences
but nonetheless journalists still have
the capacity to challenge this and come
into the West Bank the persons that they
are bringing on to speak on the
situation are the very people that are
committing the crimes against
Palestinians that is Israeli military
spokespersons um that is Israeli policy
makers and settlers and at the same time
negating the Palestinian testimony and
if they do speak with Palestinians it is
always an attempt to frame a two- Sidis
but there is no two sides to this not
just because it's a false equivalence
between colonizer and colonized but
because journalists are only showing one
side and that is the Israeli side and
unfortunately what we have seen more
than that is a negation and a denial of
the information and news that local
journalists have as though that is
inferior rather than recognizing that
local journalists are the experts on
this situation even though their lives
are at increased risk um from Israeli
repression as we have seen in their
targeting and so these layers contribute
to the misinformation these layers
contribute to allowing Global complicity
persist and sustain um what we are
seeing in Palestine many Western and
international media Outlets simply brand
this as a war between Israel and Hamas
how accurate is that framing given every
everything that we've been hearing from
Israeli officials on the record
targeting civilians in Gaza how accurate
is the framing how dangerous is
it it is so dangerous to take what is
happening to Palestinians and reduce it
to the title of an Hamas Israel war this
is not a war between Hamas and Israel
this is a war against Palestinians so to
frame it as that is a reductionist
approach and it is an attempt to
continue the illustration of
Palestinians as terrorists because of
the the association that was made of
what Hass is we see the Israeli military
they closed down a printing shop
downtown ramala just this morning and
the flyer on the door that they
plastered was Hamas equals Isis so it
goes to show you how manipulative that
narrative is and then there's no mention
of G being besieged for close to two
decades there's no mention of the same
thing happening in GDA right now has
happened before at a smaller scale
because what we have seeing is
transcending all trends of violence that
we Palestinians have witnessed or we
have witnessed in the region since
1948 so to claim that it is a Hamas and
Israel war is either an inability to
actually do the due diligence and look
into the context and explain that to
your audience or it is intentional and
that means you are being complicit in
general
S one last question for you we've seen
some amazing journalism coming out of
Gaza Palestinians too many of whom have
paid with their lives uh making a name
for themselves getting the recognition
that they deserve can you give us a few
names of some good follows of
Palestinian journalists on the West Bank
people whose work is worthy of our
following
you
okay um do you need another
moment take your time yeah just one sec
take your
time it's so difficult to speak about
journalists here tell about it
considering just the targeting yeah it's
heartache and and as a reporter you know
I think we forget that these are our
peers and it also you know we're not
advocating just for the protection of
journalists but as reporters and
journalists we're advocating for
ourselves um to to remain
safe but in terms of coverage I think
there are multiple reporters and news
organizations that are actually going
against the grain and going against the
restrictions that are being imposed by
editorial policies abroad at least Al
jazer has been doing incredible coverage
um of what's been happening all across
pales not just Les and the West Bank but
in its entire context we there are
organizations such as mise which has
also been reporting excellent um imprint
uh on the West Bank we have Middle East
ey that has also been showcasing
excellent reporting on the West Bank as
well as highlighting and covering the
disinformation and mistranslation that
has been happening within International
media
organizations but I mean in in terms of
individuals you can see the works of
people like fat
andan uh you can see the works of
Muhammad although he is not here but he
is able to amplify a lot of the coverage
that is being sent from local
journalists abroad but yeah I'm sorry I
don't have maybe two specific
names that's fine that's fine Mariam
baruti thank you for joining us today
here at the listening post
thank you for having
me one final note now on two Wars both
still ongoing and the different way the
players are portrayed in the mainstream
news media at the end of
2022 Time Magazine revealed its person
of the year Ukrainian president
volodimir zalinski zalinski has been
feted in the western media for leading
the Ukrainian war effort against Russia
and its occupation hamas's attacks on
October 7th and the resulting Israeli
War on Gaza have knocked Ukraine out of
the headlines it's the biggest story on
the planet and Time Magazine has just
named its person of the year for
2023 Taylor Swift a musician an
Entertainer time calls itself a news
magazine its choice of a singer as its
person of the year at a time like this
with the human Arian Stakes so high is
as toned deaf as they come we'll see you
next time here at the listening
post